=head1 NAME

mapsoft_convert -- convert geodata to various formats


=head1 SYNTAX

	mapsoft_convert <options> <input files> -o <output file>


=head1 MAIN OPTIONS

B<< --help, -h >> -- show help message

B<< --out=<file>, -o <file> >> -- specify output file (required)

B<< --skip=<string>, -s <string> >> -- skip some types of data (see below)

B<< --rescale_maps <factor> >> -- rescale map references

B<< --shift_maps <x>,<y> >> -- shift map references


=head1 INPUT FILES

format is determined by file extension:

B<<  *.xml >> -- mapsoft native XML-like format

B<<  *.fig >> -- mapsoft geofig format

B<<  *.wpt, *.plt, *.map >> -- OziExplorer format

B<<  *.zip >> -- zipped OziExplorer files

B<<  *.gpx >> -- GPX format /partial support, tracks and waypoints

B<<  *.gu >> -- old garmin-utils format (tracks and waypoints only)

B<<  gps: >> -- read data from Garmin GPS via autodetected serial device

B<<  <character device> >> -- read data from Garmin GPS via serial device


=head1 OUTPUT FILE

Format is determined by file extension:

B<<  *.xml >> -- mapsoft native XML-like format

B<<  *.wpt, *.plt, *.map, *.oe  >> -- OziExplorer format (Each track,
waypoint set or map reference will be written in a separate .plt, .wpt
or .map file)

B<<  *.zip >> -- zipped OziExplorer files

B<<  *.gpx >> -- GPX format /partial support, tracks and waypoints/

B<<  *.kml >> -- Google KML format /partial support, tracks and waypoints/

B<<  *.kmz >> -- zipped kml

B<<  *.gu  >> -- old garmin-utils format (tracks and waypoints only)

B<<  *.tif, .tiff, .jpg, .jpeg >> -- raster image (see below)

B<<  gps: >> -- send data to Garmin GPS via autodetected serial device

B<<  <character device> >> -- send data to Garmin GPS via serial device


=head1 SKIPPING DATA

You can use B<< -s <string> >> or B<< --skip=<string> >> option to skip some data.
String may contain letter:

B<"m"> -- skip maps

B<"w"> -- skip waypoints

B<"t"> -- skip tracks

B<"a"> -- skip ACTIVE LOG track

B<"o"> -- skip all tracks excluding ACTIVE LOG

For example downloadind only Active log track from gps:

	mapsoft_convert gps: -s ow -o file.plt


=head1 OPTIONS FOR RASTER IMAGE OUTPUT

B<< -d <name>,--datum=<name> >> -- datum (pulkovo, wgs84, ...)

B<< -p <name>,--proj=<name> >> -- projection (lonlat, tmerc, ...)

B<< -g <AxB+C+D>,--geom=<AxB+C+D> >> -- geometry (in projection units)

Default datum is pulkovo, default projection is tmerc..
Default geiometry is calculated from geodata (not map) range.

B<< --fig=<file> >> -- write referenced geofig file for image

B<< --map=<file> >> -- write OziExplorer map file for image

B<< --htm=<file> >> -- write HTML map.

B<< --scale <v> >> -- map scale (1e-5 means 1km per 1cm).

B<< --rscale <v> >> -- reversed map scale, 1/scale

B<< --dpi <v> >> -- dots per inch

B<< --factor <v> >> -- rescale factor (default: 1)

By default the scale of resulting map is the same as one of the first.
input map. If there is no maps on input scale=1e-5,dpi=200. You may
change default value using factor parameter or rewrite it by dpi and
scale (or rscale) parameters

Note: using rscale=100000, dpi=300 and rscale=50000, dpi=150 gave same
images but different geofig files.

Note: rscale value overwrites scale.

[B<< --data_marg=<m> >> -- When detecting geometry of geodata add
margings around it (in pixels).


B<< --draw_borders=(1|0) >> -- draw map borders

B<< --jpeg_quality=<n> >> -- jpeg quality

B<< --max_image=<W,H> >> -- maximum image size (default: 5000,5000)

B<< --google=<scale> >> -- add google image of specified scale

B<< --ks=<scale> >> -- add ks image of specified scale

B<< --google_dir=<dir> >> -- directory for google images

B<< --ks_dir=<dir> >> -- directory for ks images

B<< --download=(1|0) >> -- turn on downloading of ks and google images


=head1 EXAMPLES

Convert Ozi map files to a single xml:

	mapsoft_convert /maps/*.map -o maps.xml

Download waypoints and active log from GPS device and write them down in
Ozi format files data.plt and data.wpt:

	mapsoft_convert /dev/ttyUSB0 -s o -o data.plt

Convert waypoints and track to packed kml format:

	mapsoft_convert data.plt data.wpt -o data.kmz

Create jpeg image with map from maps.xml and data from data.plt. Create also a map-file for this image

	mapsoft_convert maps.xml data.plt -o mymap.jpg --map=mymap.map

Create jpeg image with KS image and your dataand map-file for it. ./KS directory must exist.

	mapsoft_convert --ks=14 --ks_dir=~/KS --download=1 data.plt -o mymap.jpg


=head1 AUTHORS

Vladislav Zavjalov <slazav@altlinux.org>, Max Ushakov, Tim Alexeevsky


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Homepage (rus) |http://slazav.mccme.ru/prog/mapsoft.htm>

L<Source code |http://github.com/ushakov/mapsoft>

L<Bugtracer |http://mapsoft.lighthouseapp.com/projects/24601-mapsoft/tickets>

L<LJ community |http://community.livejournal.com/mapsoft/>
